There are two general approaches to handling arbitrary binary data in SOAP-based web services:
    • The binary data can be encoded using a scheme such as base64 and then transmitted as the payload of the SOAP body.
    For instance, a service operation that returns an image to a requester simply could return a  java.awt.Image , which is a
    Java wrapper for image bytes. The image’s bytes then would be encoded and transmitted as the body of a SOAP message.
    The downside is that base64 and similar encoding schemes result in payloads that are at least a third larger in size than the
    original, unencoded binary data. In short, byte encoding such as base64 results in data bloat.
    • The binary data can be transmitted as one or more attachments to a SOAP message. Recall that a SOAP message consists of a SOAP part,
    which is the SOAP envelope with an optional header and a possibly empty body. A SOAP message also may have attachments,
    which can carry data of any MIME type, including multimedia types such as  audio/x-wav ,  video/mpeg , and  image/jpeg .
    JAX-B provides the required mappings between MIME and Java types: the MIME types  image/* map to Image ,
    and the remaining multimedia types map to  DataHandler .

Three Options for SOAP Attachments
There are basically three options for SOAP attachments: SwA (SOAP with Attachments), the original SOAP specification for attachments;
DIME (Direct Internet Message Encapsulation), a lightweight but by now old-fashioned encoding scheme for attachments;
and MTOM (Message Transmission Optimization Mechanism), which is based on XOP (XML-Binary Optimized Packaging).
JWS has a DIME extension whose main purpose is to interoperate with Microsoft clients. Up until the release of Microsoft
Office 2003, a web service client written in Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) could handle only DIME rather than MTOM attachments.
The SwA approach has drawbacks. For one, it is hard to use SwA with a  document- style service, which is now the norm.
Further, frameworks such as DotNet do not support SwA. MTOM has the W3C stamp of approval and enjoys widespread support;
hence, MTOM is the efficient, modern, interoperable way to transmit binary data in SOAP-based web services. Before considering MTOM,
let’s take a quick look at base64 encoding of binary data, which might be used for small binary payloads.